### Scenario 1
Alice and Bob live in Milan. One afternoon Bob wants to go and meet Alice. Since Bob's car is broken, he decides to take advange of PowerEnJoy car sharing. Then he registers to the system in order to be able to reserve a car. He reaches the nearest parking area (searching for it on the website of the company), unlocks and ignites a car. When he reaches Alice's house, Bob looks for a car park to leave the car and plug it in order to charge the battery. Bob is happy to discover that he deserved a discount on the bill for having brought back the car to a parking station and having plugged it to the power source.

### Scenario 2
Alice and Bob live in Milan. Bob is very interested in modern art, and asks Alice to go with him to visit an exhibition about Escher. Alice knwos that Eve is interested in the exhibition too, and asks her to come with them. The three friends don't want to drive their own car in the center of Milan, so, as Bob is registered to PowerEnJoy car sharing system, they decide to take a car from that company. Bob reserves a car in the nearest parking station, and then goes to lunch with Alice and Eve. After lunch, the friends reach the car and drive to the museum. As Bob has brought with him other two people, he is applied a discount on the fee.

### Scenario 3
Mallory's car is in maintenance, but he is in desperate need of a car because his favourite pop star will meet her fans at the Mediolanum Forum in Assago. He remembers about Bob talking about a very nice car sharing system, so he browses the web and founds PowerEnJoy website. He follows the registration instructions, the accesses the application, searches for the nearest car and reserves it immediatly. After that, John calls Mallory to ask him to take part in a match of Mallory's favourite online game. Mallory thinks that he has plenty of time to end the match before meeting his favourite pop star, but the match goes longer and longer. At the end Mallory reaches in a hurry the parking station, but is not able to find his car, as he spent more then one hour since reservation playing that game. Moreover, Mallory is charged of a fee for having reserved and then not taken a car.

### Scenario 4
John invites Mallory to try a match at the nearest _Laser Game_ arena. Since Mallory is registered to PowerEnJoy car sharing system, he proposes to care about reserving a car. 30 minutes before meeting John, Mallory searches for the nearest car and reserves it. Then he goes to the parking station, takes up the car and drives first to John's and then to the arena. As the arena is very far from the nearest parking station, the two friends decide to park the car just outside it. The system charges Mallory with a fee for having parked a shared car so far from a parking station.

### Scenario 5
Alice wants to go to the supermarket to buy the latest dress of her favourite fashion designer. As Alice is very attentive to the environment and only drives electric and shared cars, is a affectionate user of PowerEnJoy car sharing. Alice opens the application, searches for the nearest car and reserves it. As she knows that it will take not much time to her to buy her new dress, and that there are many request for cars near the supermarket, Alice searches also for a car that is near to the supermarket, and reserves it, so she will not have to go far from the supermarket to find a car for going back home.