##Program stubs and drivers
In order to actually perform the integration testing, and then to run tests, a number of drivers and stubs is generally needed. Drivers and stubs, in order to invoke methods and emulate components, will work in the context of the __JUnit__ framework.

###Stubs
Due to the _bottom up_ integration approach, no stub should be required by the testing activity, as system is built from the most simple components up. By the way, as components involved in client-server interaction are mutually coupled, a number of stubs will also be required in order to emulate the behaviour of a component receiving a response. In particular, only one stub component, with the very simple function of logging the response received from the server should be used until _user application_ and _employee application_ are fully developed and unit tested.

However, stub for the _bill controller_ must be developed, in order to avoid triggering real banking transactions during test phase.

###Drivers
Drivers are a very key point in _bottom up_ integration testing, as they responsible of trigger actions (and then interactions) in components, and this actually drives the test.  
Here is a list of all the drivers that will be developed in order to carry out the integration testing phase.

* __Bill driver__  
  This driver calls the methods exposed by the _bill controller_ component in order to test its integration with the _DBMS_

* __User driver__  
  This driver calls the methods exposed by the _user controller_ in order to test its integration with the _bill controller_ and the _DBMS_.

* __Geographical areas driver__  
  This driver calls the methods exposed by the _geographical areas controller_, in order to test the integration with _DBMS_ and _user controller_. Due to the intrensic complexity of some algorithms used inside the _geographical areas controller_, particular attenction should be put to test that the communication with other modules works correctly.

* __Safe areas driver__  
  This driver calls the methods exposed by the _safe areas controller_ in rder to test the interaction with the _user controller_ and the _DBMS_.

* __Monitoring controller driver__  
  This driver calls the methods exposed by the _monitoring controller_ in order to test its interaction with the external _car monitoring system_ component. This driver is a very key point in integration testing, both because the driven components directly interacts with an external component, and because that external component is supposed to be deployed on cars, and so the interaction over a mobile network must be checked very carefully.

* __Car controller driver__  
  This driver calls the methods exposed by the _car controller_ component, in order to test the interaction with the _monitoring controller_ and the _DBMS_

* __Ride controller driver__  
  This driver calls the method exposed by the _ride controller_ component, in order to test the integration with _monitoring controller_, _user controller_, _bill controller_, _DBMS_ and _safe areas controller_

* __Reservation controller driver__  
  This driver calls the method exposed by the _reservation controller_ component, in order to test the integration with _ride controller_, _user controller_, _bill controller_, _DBMS_ and _geographical areas controller_

* __Router driver__  
  This driver calls the methods exposed by the _router_ component, in order to test the external public API provided by the system, which is composed of functions exposed by the _user controller_, the _reservation controller_, the _safe areas controller_ and the _geographical areas controller_

* __Client application driver__  
  This driver emulates the requests of both _user application_ and _employee application_. This is possible because both use the same communication technology (HTTPS protocol). In particular, it sends requests to the public server API, and works together with the _client stub_ mentioned in the previous paragraph to check correctness of server responses.