###Scale factors
In order to evaluate scale factors, we refer to the official COCOMO II table

For each scale factor, here is a concise explanation of the reasons of the evaluation:

####Precedentedness (PREC)
Precedentedness accounts for the familiarity of our development team with projects that are similar to this one. In order to evaluate precedentedness, we need to evaluate several factors:

* __Organizational understanding of product objectives__  
  Since we had a lot of feedback by the stakeholders, and the analysis of functional and non functional requirements was carried out very attentively, we decided to evaluate this parameter as __considerable__.
* __Experience in working with related software systems__  
  As our team has never worked for sharing companies, and it is not very familiar in dealing with this domain, we evaluate this parameter as __moderate__.
* __Concurrent development of associated new hardware and operational procedures__  
  This project does not require any specific hardware to be developed, as the only hardware needed is the sensor system of the car, which is already present on board of the very same cars. Hence, we decided to evaluate this parameter with the best evaluation possible: __some__ (according to the official table).
* __Need for innovative data processing architectures, algorithms__  
  This project does not requires innovative algorithms to be designed in order to handle the tasks he has to carry out. The only tricky part, that was specified in the DD, does not require any innovative algotithm, as all the algorithms used in it are quite known. Hence, we evaluate this parameter as __minimal__.

Averaging these parameters we obtain a rating for the PREC scale factor of __high__.

####Development flexibility (FLEX)
Development flexibility accounts for the flexibility allowed in the development project with respect to requirements and external interface conformance. In order to evaluate development flexibility, we need ot evaluate several factors:

* __Need for software conformance with preestablished requirements__  
  Since we have almost no legal constraint, but quite precise and strict functional requirements that derive from an accurate requirements analysis, we evaluate this parameter as __considerable__
* __Need for software conformance with external interface specifications__  
  In this project, there are interactions with external systems, but as we discussed in the FP analysis, all systems have very simple interfaces (at least for the services that we are using), then we decide to evaluate this parameter as __basic__
* __Combination of inflexibilities above with premium on early completion__  
  Even if inflexibilities at the previous points are not that serious, we cannot forget them as we still need to stick to them precisely, and this is always a time consuming activity, hence we decided to evaluate this parameter as __medium__.

Averaging these parameters we obtain a rating for the FLEX scale factor of __high__.

####Architecture / Risk Resolution (RESL)
This scale factor accounts for awarness and reactiveness to risks, and it is strictly connected with the risk plan discussed later in this document. In order to evaluate this scale factor, we need to evaluate several parameters.

* __Risk Management Plan identifies all critical risk items__  
  Even if the risk analysis was carried out very carefully, we cannot grant it is complete, hence we decided to evaluate this parameter as __generally__.
* __Schedule is compatible with Risk Management Plan__  
  Since we have a quite tight schedule, the is not much window to handle risks that are time consuming or that are not included in the risk plan, hence we decided to evaluate this parameter as __little__
* __Percent of development schedule devoted to establishig architecture, given general product objectives__  
  As it is clear from the Gantt Chart included in this document, the percentage of development schedule devoted to the architectural design is of __18.75%__ (about 3 weeks over the overall duration of 16 weeks).
* __Percent of required top software architects available to the project__  
  Since we have no other project running in parallel, we can devote the __100%__ of our workforce to this project.
* __Tool support available for resolving risk items, developing and verifying architectural specs__  
  As we don't have plenty of tools to verify architectural specs or resolving risk items (in fact, the main tool is _Alloy_ specification language), we evaluate this parameter as __little__
* __Number and criticality of risk items__  
  This can be read directly from the risk analysis, since we have only very few critical risks, we can evaluate this parameter assigning it a __nominal__ level.

Averaging these parameters we obtain an overall rating for the RESL scale factor of __nominal__.

####Team cohesion (TEAM)
The Team Cohesion scale factor accounts for the sources of project turbulence and entropy because of difficulties in synchronizing the project’s stakeholders (from COCOMO specification). In order to evaluate the TEAM scale factor, we need to provide an evaluation of different parameters:
* __Consistency of stakeholder objectives and cultures__  
  As almost all the stakeholders come from a quite similar cultural background (in fact, the project has quite limited geographical scope), we evaluate this parameter as _strong_
* __Ability, willingness of stakeholders to accommodate other stakeholders’ objectives__  
  Basing on our knowledge of the stakeholders involved in the project, we evaluate this parameter as __little__ (in fact, PowerEnJoy manager only aims at earning as much as possible)
* __Experience of stakeholders in operating as a team__  
  PowerEnJoy is a relatively new company, the feeling among stakeholders might not been so run-in, even if we don't are likely to find serious problems, hence we evaluate this parameter as __basic__
* __Stakeholder teambuilding to achieve shared vision and commitments)__  
  For similar reasons as the second point in this list, we evaluate this parameter as __little__

Averaging this parameters we obtain an overall rating for the TEAM scale factor of __nominal__

####Process Maturity (PMAT)
We are a very young software company, and we only reached CMM level 2 (process is characterized for projects but it is often reactive and heaviliy relies on the people making it work). So far, the PMAT parameter can be attributed a level of __nominal__.

####Scale factor review

The following tables summarizes the evaluation of scale factors and maps the rating levels to the corresponding coefficients, according to the official COCOMO specification.

| Scale Factor | Rating  | Coefficient |
|:-------------|:-------:|------------:|
| PREC         | High    | 2.48        |
| FLEX         | High    | 2.03        |
| RESL         | Nominal | 4.24        |
| TEAM         | Nominal | 3.29        |
| PMAT         | Nominal | 4.68        |

Overall, the sum of the coefficients yields a value of S = 16.72.  
From here, we can calculate the E parameter
~~~
E = B + 0.01 * S = 1.0772
~~~