###Cost drivers
For cost driver estimation we use the _Post-Architecture_ model, as we have already a well detailed design of the system architecture. This allows us to evaluate much more parameters than the _Early-design_ model, thus we'll obtain a more precise estimation of th effort needed for the project.

For each cost driver, we provide the evaluation and a brief explanation of the rational undelying it.

####Required Software Reliability (RELY)
This driver accounts for the increasing complexity that corresponds to increasing reliability requirements. According to the COCOMO specification, we can classify the effects of a software failures as _moderate, easy recoverable losses_, as we are not dealing with life-critical or economic-critical applications, so higher rating levels are not appropriate in this context.  
Hence, RELY is rated at __nominal__ level (coefficient: 1.00)

####Data Base Size (DATA)
This driver accounts for the effort needed to develop a larger test database. Hence we neither need tons of test data nor deal with complex or unstructurable data or media files, we can estimate the database size in a range of 10 to 100 bytes per line of code (in a very pessimistic estimation, the overall database size would not be greater than 1MB).  
Thus, DATA is rated at __nominal__ level (coefficient: 1.00)

####Product Complexity (CPLX) 
This driver meaning is really implicit in its name. For the evaluation, we need to average the evaluation of 5 different areas

* __Control Operations__  
  Code has in general a not so complex control flow graph, except for the algorithms that manipulate safe areas and geographical areas, which use a very nested, recursive control flow graph with lots of predicates, hence according to the COCOMO specification, we can rate it at a __high__ level
* __Computational Operations__  
  Even if the complexity of several algorithms is not trivial for the reasons pointed out just before, the underlying operations are kind of simple, there is no differential calculus, numerical analysis or heavy matrix computations, hence we evaluate this parameter as __low__
* __Device-dependent operations__  
  The system under consideration does not require specific or specialized hardware, and more it carries out input/output operations using a textual protocol (HTTPS), hence we evaluate this parameter as __low__
* __Data management operations__  
  The system requires the processing of moderately complex queries, but the database structure is fixed from the design phase, so we can evaluate this parameter as __low__
* __User Interface Management Operations__  
  The user interface designed for the system is quite simple as we can see from the mockups, and can easily be implemented as a set of widgets, so this parameter can be rated __nominal__

Averaging these parameters we obtain a overall rating for the CPLX cost driver of a _nominal_ level (coefficient: 1.00)

####Developed For Reusability (RUSE)
This cost driver accounts for the additional effort to be put in developing and testing reusable components instead of domain specific components. As our company, as an internal policy, always plans to build as much reusable components as possible, in order to advantage in facing future problems, we must evaluate this cost driver as __high__ (coefficient: 1.07), as we will put some effort in trying to achieve reusability.

####Documentation Match to Life-Cycle Needs (DOCU)
This cost driver accounts for the effort that need to be put in writing documentation that fits well product lifecycle needs (and in particular maintenance). As the schedule is quite tight, but documentation is very important too, we try to write a quite extensive documentation that well fits product lifecycle and helps a lot in component reusability. Hence, this cost driver is assigned a rating level of __nominal__ (coefficient: 1.00)

####Execution Time Constraint (TIME)
This cost driver accounts for the relative time consumption of the system in performing the tasks it is intended to with respect to the total completion time. The system we have designed has not to carry out very time expansive operations, but it is planned to be used by many users at a time, thus requiring about the __70%__ of the available computational time (coefficient: 1.11)

####Main Storage Constraint (STORE)
This cost driver accounts for the degree of main storage required by this system to store its data. Hence it is not the case that the data manipulated by the system grow exponentially in time, and since there are no multimedia data, but mainly integers and strings, we can rate this cost driver at a level of __nominal__, which corresponds to a relative use of main storage with respect to available storage of less than 50% (coefficient: 1.00)

####Platform Volatility (PVOL)
The main platform we work with are J2EE and browsers. As far as J2EE is concerned, platform is almost stable with a major release every about 2 years. The Java language has more frequent major releases, but it aims to be retrocompatible, so it does not present many problems of compatibility. Instead, browsers have more frequent releases (a release every 2 months approximatively), but the HTML5 specification (and the ECMAscript and CSS3 related specifications) are almost stable. Hence, we can rate this cost driver at __low__ level (coefficient: 0.87)